MARISHA: And I cast my Skywrite spell-- ew, I just
spit-- and I use the smoke in the distance and as

it's rising up into the sky, start drawing out the
de Rolo family crest in the smoke.

MATT: Okay. You begin to take the plume of smoke
and filter into the dark rain clouds and you make

the smoke go to a thicker, thicker black and take
the next few moments to begin sculpting in the air

until eventually we have a very well-defined de
Rolo crest now staring down at the entire city of

Whitestone.

SAM: Oh! Something's happening! Something's
happening in the sky!

MARISHA: That's me.

SAM: I think it's a magic wielder of some sort.
Something-- I must flee!

(laughter)

MATT: All right. Investigation checks from both of
you.

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Did I find anything on Smash-Face?

LIAM: (sighs) That's what you rolled the last
time.

LAURA: I know!

TALIESIN: 16.

LAURA: I've got to put this one away for a while.

MATT: What did you roll?

LAURA: I rolled a nine.

MATT: Okay. The two of you take a while upstairs
looking about the rooms. You manage to acquire

from just some of the local bits of cabinets and
dust, you gather about 230 gold pieces.

LAURA: 230?

MATT: Just loose gold pieces that are around.
There is a nice jewelry box that seems to contain

most of the jewels and gems that this individual
likes.

LAURA: I'm going to take the whole jewelry box and
sort through it later.

MATT: Okay. So say a box of Tylieri's jewelry
would be what you've marked down.

TALIESIN: Tylieri family jewels.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: That won't be confusing at all.

MATT: There you go. You do notice, however, that's
all you're able to find for the most part, other than

some few bits of clothing and outfit. The master
bedroom has no bed.

LAURA: Does he sleep in a coffin?

TALIESIN: We're going to finish searching
downstairs and then find the entrance to the--

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: I'd like to wind my way up there, as well.

MATT: Okay, as you make your way up there you
notice them stepping out.

LIAM: Yeah. I'm still curious. I want to go have a
look as well.

MATT: Go for it. Investigation.

LAURA: That's better, thank you.

LIAM: 16.

MATT: 16? You look through the room. Most
everything of interest has already been picked

clean. This room also doesn't seem to see much use
other than the clothing that's in there. This room

is used for dressing and presentational purposes
but other than that, as a bedroom, it's pretty

useless. As you guys go downstairs, we'll say for
the sake of brevity you take a little bit of time

to start looking through. You know you're a little
pressed for time because you can feel the energy

in the town begin to rise and you start hearing
noises. You keeping an eye out?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: The people that rush into the rooms are now
rushing back out, some of them wearing leather

tunics and small bits of armor, their weapons
gathered, and they're forming small bands.

MARISHA: I come over the speakers once again, the
ear pieces. "I think it's time to go. Whenever you

"guys are ready, I want to light this bitch up."

TRAVIS: We need to check all the rooms that go
downstairs first.

MARISHA: All right, quick.

TRAVIS: "Got an empty house." I run out to the
door to the left. To the uncovered areas.

MATT: Okay. You go over to this hallway. You
eventually smash the door, doesn't take too long.

It leads into what looks like a small study or
some sort of an office room. A big blue rug, a

desk with a chair, some papers strewn about.

TRAVIS: Can I grab the rug and yank it?

MATT: Yeah, pull the rug off, reveals a hatch.

TRAVIS: (excited shouting) I found a hatch!

LAURA: (cries out in pain) No need to yell!

TRAVIS: Oh sorry. (quieter) I found a hatch.

TALIESIN: Quick, I just want to do a quick round
of the downstairs room before going to the hatch.

MATT: Okay. Glancing about, you find what looks to
be a general sitting area, a music room, or a

place where you would host guests. Also in fair disuse.
And then beyond that, you find a room that's

pretty bland, with a staircase that leads down
into what was once servants' quarters that has

been converted into a torture room.

LAURA: Oh, lovely.

MATT: It's a little nicer in its presentation and
tools than the duergar torture room that you

encountered in the Underdark, but this looks to be
like Tylieri had a definite interest in

entertaining unwanted guests.

TALIESIN: Okay.

TRAVIS: Vax or Vex, will you come check this hatch
for boobies?

(laughter)

LIAM: I jog on down.

MATT: All right, make a perception check.

LIAM: Yeah. That's a 23.

MATT: Yeah, it does not appear to be trapped.

TRAVIS: No boobies.

LIAM: Okay. You want to open that, big guy?

TRAVIS: Yeah! (growls)

MATT: (vroom) The hatch comes up. There is no
ladder; it's just a ten-foot drop down into a

basement.

TRAVIS: Okay, I jump.

MATT: Land down there. A 20 foot by 20 foot room.
It's very musty. However, you do see in the far

corner there is a pad of fresh earth set up, and
there is a dark box.

TRAVIS: Um.

MATT: About eight feet long.

LIAM: I hear him say "Um," and I jump down, too.
With the Flametongue dagger out for light.

MATT: Okay. The room lights up a little bit and
you can see across the way there is a not

super-detailed, but a fairly well-crafted coffin
on the opposite side of the room.

TRAVIS: Ooh! I bet there's treasure in there!

LIAM: You might be right. Yeah, let's go have a
look.

LAURA: Is there treasure? Did you find treasure?

LIAM: "Hold, please." Perception check the coffin.
That's a 20.

MATT: Okay. The coffin does not appear to be
trapped?

TRAVIS: Can I open it?

MARISHA: He said that with a question mark.

MATT: It's always fun to do that.

TRAVIS: Well, should I just smash it?

LIAM: I really feel like this could be--

LAURA: Smash it!

TRAVIS: Three, two. Grog smashes.

LIAM: I kick it off with the end of my foot.
Little bit. Or try to.

MATT: Okay. (boof) The lid flies off and then
slams on the ground. A smell hits you that's just

like musty old mildewed earth. The inside of the
coffin is, it's lined with like a fine purplish

velvet material, the smell quickly fades. It looks
like there are some small baubles in there,

keepsakes. There is what looks to be a cape or a
cloak that is laid across the bottom of this for

comfort.

LIAM: Roll it up. Put it into my satchel. I'm
going to take a dagger out and I want to cut all

the way up through that purple velvet. Just see,
just in case.

MATT: Okay. You cut through the purple velvet.
Rummage through underneath. It appears to be the

back of the box.

TALIESIN: I'm going to check his desk upstairs for
anything interesting.

MATT: Okay. Want to make an investigation check?

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

MATT: As you're rummaging through the notes in the
desk, a lot of them are ledgers involving the

trade in and out of the city. He has his hands
dabbling in elements of the timber trade, elements

of the actual trade of whitestone. He talks about
the-- and you understand, the reason that

Whitestone itself is-- the stone that's mined here
is so popular for construction and architecture

and other elements is the stone that these
mountains are made of, when properly prepared,

there is a faint bit of residuum that is naturally
ingrained in the rock here. No one really knows

how it came about, but whatever it is, while it is
not inherently magical, it makes it a little bit

easier, faster, and cheaper to enchant the stone.
So when it comes to, you know, enchanting a

teleportation circle permanently somewhere or for
traps or things-- not actual objects but actually

enchanting anything made of stonework. It's easier
to enchant, and that's why the whitestone of this

area is sought after and a good trade element. So
there's notes about that. But the stone trade has

been halted, all stone has continued to be mined,
but it's not being transported.

TRAVIS: Is the desk made out of the stone?

MATT: No, there's just notes about it. So all the
whitestone that is being mined is not being

exported. It's being kept here, somewhere.

LAURA: They're making something big.

TALIESIN: They're making something big.

LIAM: I think we need to get out of here.

TRAVIS: I was going to ask, are you good with the
coffin?

LIAM: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Okay. I smash the shit out of it, in an
effort to see what's underneath.

MATT: Okay. You take about 30 seconds of extreme
violence against the wooden coffin, killing it

into chunks and blocks. You get the feeling that
this may have been the place the mist was

trying to get to. But it did not make its journey.
It got scattered by druid Sunbeam and destroyed,

and the coffin is left in ruins. You do-- even you,
Grog-- absorb the fact that when a vampire goes to

mist form, you get the feeling that this is the
home it needs to come to, to try and survive.

TRAVIS: Not anymore.

MATT: Not anymore. Not that one.

MARISHA: Do I see anyone coming?

MATT: Oh. You see another zombie giant coming up
the way. You can see people attacking it, it's

just thrashing them about, but this one seems less
bothered by the group and is now moving towards a

specific area, moving towards the fiery plume
in the distance. They're all gathering in that

direction.

MARISHA: But no one seems to be rushing towards
this house?

MATT: Not at the moment, no.

TRAVIS: This one's not on fire. Yet.

MATT: All right, you all gather, you can hear the
rainstorm itself is coming down in sheets. What

do you want to do?

TRAVIS: Light this candle!

LAURA: Should we light this on fire, too?

TALIESIN: Burn it to the ground.

MARISHA: "Everyone out." And I start casting a
Flaming Sphere.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: We're out by now.

MARISHA: Everyone out.

MATT: You guys all step out into the rain
(whooshes) pouring down. What bits of guard blood

that have been pressed against you washes off.

TRAVIS: Aw.

MARISHA: I peek in this foyer. And just (boof),
right in the middle, and take a minute to

move it all around.

MATT: A Flaming Sphere begins to corkscrew around
this room, up over the banister, up to the upper

area, and like an artist, you paint this entire
room with flame until the entire interior of this

main foyer is just an inferno. You can hear the
flames licking and the light is very bright. You

end up backing up and you can see people,
unarmored folk in nearby homes that are pressed up

against their windows watching this happen and
whispering to each other. The children, those that

are kept guarded and are not part of this
rebellion, they are watching this with smiles.

MARISHA: Okay, I think that's good enough.
Let's go.

TALIESIN: Head back to the curiosity shop.

LAURA: Yeah, sneaky, stealthing.

MATT: Okay. As you guys run off into the alley
behind--

LAURA: Pass Without a Trace I cast on all of us.

MATT: Okay. How many more spells do you have at
that level? Because you used it several times

today.

LAURA: Yeah, I'm fine with Pass Without a Trace.
That's a 1st-level. 2nd-level, but I'm fine.

TALIESIN: Back to the alcove, then?

MATT: You guys all dart off into the alley under
the cover of the shadows of the storm and the

rainfall, to head towards the alcove, and we'll go
ahead and take a quick break.

(cheering)

MATT: A quick break, I know I always say that, I'm
not going to say five minutes, but.

SAM: This one's a real quick break.

MATT: We'll take it real quick because we want to
try and get through as much of the story before we

get to Critmas.

LAURA: Critmas!

LIAM: Critmas! Crimmas.

TALIESIN: Oh dear god.

TRAVIS: It's going to be a thing.

MATT: Which is going to, which is going to take
some time tonight. Be back here in a few minutes

guys, we'll see you in a sec.

TRAVIS: Pizza!

[break]

MATT: Welcome back. So. Jumping back into the
chaos, the party has scattered back into the

rainstorm. I would like everyone to make a stealth
check.

LAURA: Oh, right. Plus ten for everybody.

MATT: Plus ten.

LIAM: I did all right.

TALIESIN: I rolled my disadvantage.

TRAVIS: Does it matter on a one?

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: Ten?

MATT: Total ten?

TRAVIS: Total ten. 11.

LAURA: 11, technically.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: 29.

LIAM: 43.

SAM: I'm not there.

TRAVIS: 43?

MATT: Well, you're making your own stealth,
though. You're invisible, so just roll twice.

SAM: Natural 20.

MARISHA: 28.

TALIESIN: 30.

MATT: Okay. So making up for the bounding chaos
that is Grog throughout the city, you manage to

still make your way largely as a group stealthed
to-- are you heading to the alcove, you said?

TALIESIN: That's where we had our little
crash-base set up, right?

MATT: Correct. All right. You make your way to the
alcove. As you're darting through, you can see in

the distance small pocketed sounds of yells and
the occasional sound of some sort of large-scale

crumbling or crashing of wood and stone.
Occasionally, darting past the streets, you see

militant occupants of Whitestone: armored, rushing
through, shouting orders to each other, some

coming back wounded and helping their friends
back. The midday rebellion has definitely started,

and you get the sense that the initial surprise
has been effective, but the longer this runs, the

longer this wears on, the more and more of a body
count this will be.

TRAVIS: Seeing the chaos, can I get the Dust of
Tracelessness and start trying to sprinkle it

behind us?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Guys, we should do something.

LAURA: I know, we really should.

SAM: Am I with these guys yet?

MATT: You have not, but you all meet up back at
the alcove, communicating over your earpieces. You

make your way to the front of the building. The
doors are closed and locked.

LIAM: The alcove?

TRAVIS: Closed and locked?

LIAM: I'll see about that. I'm going to check the
door.

MATT: Go for it.

LIAM: That is ten. 23.

MATT: Okay. Seems to be a fairly simple lock.

LIAM: All right.

TRAVIS: Look for an ambush around. Can we look
around?

LAURA: Yeah, perceive it?

TRAVIS: Rooftops? Sides of the building?

MATT: Make a perception check, guys.

MARISHA: All of us?

SAM: Me too?

MATT: Not you, you haven't gotten there yet.

LIAM: 20.

TRAVIS: I actually rolled a 17.

MARISHA: 12.

TALIESIN: 24.

LAURA: 26.

MATT: Okay. Looking about, there doesn't appear to
be any set ambush or anybody else here. You do

hear the soft sound of pacing footsteps in the
interior.

LAURA: Should we knock on the door?

TRAVIS: Canvass the building.

LIAM: I can get in there and see who that is. I
can go in, yeah.

LAURA: They're right on the inside.

LIAM: I thought it was upstairs, or you said right
on the other side of the door?

LAURA: Right on the other side of the door.

MARISHA: Oh, for crying out loud. I push past
them I just go, Jordana! Jordana, it's us!

MATT: Okay, there's a pause and a voice goes,
"Who's us?"

LAURA: Oh. Crazy grandma!

MARISHA: And Vox Machina. (quietly) Does she know
we're called that?

LAURA: No. I don't know. (louder) Crazy grandma
was staying with you. Crazy peasants.

MARISHA: Allies.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

MARISHA: Son of a-- nine?

LAURA: Can I help?

LAURA AND MARISHA: Crazy grandma!

MARISHA: Crazy grandma can help!

MATT: I'll say since you're backing her failure
up, go ahead and make it with disadvantage.

MARISHA: Hey, you don't have to call it-- that
sounds so sad when you say it like that.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: 18. There's a pause. "Crazy grandma? Come
in." You hear the sound of a locking sound and the

door opens up ever-so-slightly. A very, very dimly
lit interior, there's a small lantern, a hooded

lantern across the room. Other than that, you see
the shadow of Jordana as she ushers you all in out

of the rain.

LAURA: So, hey guess what? It's started.

MATT: "Yeah, apparently." She closes the door
behind you, looks out the window that has the

curtains closed and goes, "Okay. So. It's
underway. It's not safe to be here right now."

LAURA: No.

MATT: "Did anyone see you come in?"

LAURA: No, no.

MATT: "Good. Who are you?"

LAURA: "Oh. Well." How about Seeming? This whole
time, have we looked like

crazy peasants during the battle?

MATT and TRAVIS: No.

TRAVIS: We dropped it.

LAURA: We dropped it?

MATT: You dropped Seeming before all of this.

LAURA: Okay, just making sure Trinket wasn't a
donkey that killed the--

MATT: No.

TALIESIN: That would've been intense and awesome.

MATT: That would've been amazing. Donkey eating a
vampire head? Aw, man.

LIAM: This is hard to believe, but this is crazy
grandma.

LAURA: "I'm crazy grandma." I do a crazy eye thing
just to show her.

SAM: Am I there, Matt?

MATT: You've just now gotten to that point, you
see the door closing as you get there.

SAM: Hello. Hi. How'd it go?

MARISHA: Good work, by the way! That was awesome!
I mean, I saw the fire, I don't know what you did.

LAURA: So it went well?

SAM: I set fire to the place, some shit went down,
dinosaurs were harmed, but I know you got the

smoke signal and used that to attack.

MARISHA: The de Rolos have dinosaurs?

SAM: No, it was me. It's all good, though. I
caused a ruckus, that's all I was supposed to do.

TRAVIS: That's it, yeah.

MATT: "What is going on?"

TRAVIS: Right.

TALIESIN: We may have just started a revolution.

MARISHA: Does he look familiar to you?

LIAM: You don't recognize us, it's not safe to
walk these streets for outsiders, so we were using

a little bit of trickery. This is us. We're the
same people you were dealing with before.

TRAVIS: Vox Machina.

LAURA: We just need to rest.

MATT: "Okay. You can rest here, but how long?"

LAURA: Until we're healed, and then we'll go.

LIAM: Overnight.

MATT: "All right."

LAURA: I feel like we should get word out to
somebody, though, because--

SAM: To what? To hold the revolution?

LAURA: I feel like everybody's going to die before
we even get to the castle!

MARISHA: That's the thing. I don't know if this is
the time to rest.

LAURA: But we don't have any spells.

MARISHA: I'm okay. We can maybe make do.

LAURA: I can't make do.

TRAVIS: You might be cool, but we're fucked.

TALIESIN: How about we stay here until 4:00, 5:00
in the morning--

MARISHA: What time is it now?

MATT: Right now, I'd say you're close to three in
the afternoon.

LAURA: How do we tell the people to like hold
off?

SAM: We need to briefly quell the rebellion?

MARISHA: We started something. We can't stop it
now.

TALIESIN: We're going to be indoors. It doesn't
matter what time we go to attack the castle.

SAM: Let's spread word. We can spread word. Let's
find a few--

LAURA: Can we send off a message?

MARISHA: We sparked a hope in people. We now have
innocent peasants, people who are not fighters--

SAM: Can you Skywrite something like "attack
tomorrow" or "hold"?

LAURA: What if we all take off in separate
directions and we tell all the peasants we find

that are fighting the time that we're going to
attack?

TRAVIS: Aren't there a bunch of zombie stone
giants walking around?

LAURA: Well yeah, we'll have to be sneaky about
it, but we'll spread the rumors around. I look at

Jordana. Joanna?

MATT: Jordana.

LAURA: Jordana. And I say, can you get word out
to people?

MATT: "To a few, maybe. I don't want to go outside
right now."

LAURA: I don't blame you, dear.

TALIESIN: Let's let her stay. I say we just rest
up and we attack tonight.

TRAVIS: Tonight?

MARISHA: What if there isn't a town to defend
tonight?

TRAVIS: Aren't they stronger then?

TALIESIN: It's going to be indoors, anyway.

SAM: First of all, it's raining outside. It's
daytime. There's no vampires out there right now,

right? They don't like water, do they?

LAURA: No, they don't like running water, in fact
they hate running water!

I didn't think about that.

MARISHA: It's a lot of running water, though. I
think they're all right with rain.

TRAVIS: Yeah, they said a river is what the...
right?

SAM: I'm sure they don't like it. In any case, the only
thing that our rebels are rebelling against right

now are six zombie giants, one of whom I'm pretty
sure they killed already. Did I see them?

MATT: Best you could see, that group was doing
pretty well and was hacking it down. Lost a few of

their number in the process.

MARISHA: Did we ever get a count of how many
zombie giants there were?

SAM: There were six.

MATT: There were six that you saw while you were
doing your overall flight.

LAURA: What, so we go out and fight zombie
giants?

SAM: No, but maybe we could--

MARISHA: Why not? We are the most capable people
in this town right now.

LAURA: Well. We could go fight zombie giants and
then tell everybody to wait.

TRAVIS: Nah, it's going to fuck us. We've got to
rest.

MARISHA: Why don't we take a short rest, heal up a
bit, get back out there, take down some giants.

What do you guys say?

SAM: I admire this fire in your eyes, but it's so
stupid.

LAURA: What if we run out and tell people to stop
fucking fighting and wait until tomorrow?

LIAM: They won't. The giants are going to keep
smashing them.

SAM: What time did he say it was?

TALIESIN: It's about three. We could just do a
round of the front courtyard and see what's going on.

LAURA: Fuck! Fine.

TALIESIN: Try and sleep through the night.

LAURA: All right. We fight until we absolutely
can't fight anymore.

TRAVIS: What about the people who absolutely need a
short rest at the minimum stay.

LIAM: We stay for an hour.

TALIESIN: We're short-resting right now.

LIAM: Rest for an hour.

MARISHA: This is going to go on for a while, but
the longer we wait indoors, the more people are

going to die, and if we're killing people to try
and save the masses-- which is how I'm justifying

this whole thing, by the way-- I feel like we
can't leave the masses to their own devices.

SAM: Wait a second, what about that, what about
that cleric, the religious man that you've talked

to. Could he get a message out to everybody?
What's his name?

LAURA: At this point, though, it's chaos.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: We literally lit the fire and we can't
stop it now.

SAM: Archibald? Is that his name?

TRAVIS: Yeah, they're standing up for themselves.

TALIESIN: We also, somebody-- there's the point
that somebody is informing on us.

MARISHA: Someone is informing on us.

SAM: What are you talking about, why?

TALIESIN: They were ready for us. They knew we
were coming.

SAM: Of course they knew we were coming, we killed
one of their--

LAURA: They said there was an informant. They said
that there was an informant when we were there.

TRAVIS: Who did?

LAURA: That guard. He said our contacts were
right. Our informant was correct. Somebody is

informing on us. It could be you.

LIAM: I insight-check this woman.

MATT: Go ahead and roll insight.

LIAM: 14.

LAURA: Can I say it? Because I just said, "It
could be you." Can I do the same thing?

MATT: Sure, go ahead.

LAURA: All right. That's terrible. Okay. So.

SAM: What do you want to know?

MATT: Best that you can tell, she just looks
genuinely scared and is uncomfortable with your

presence right now but is letting it happen. She's
still getting over the fact that you guys look

entirely different than when you first talked to
her about staying here.

LAURA: Well, short rest and then we head out? We
do some attacks and--

LIAM: I've never fought a zombie giant before.

LAURA: No, but everybody else is doing it. Those
peasants are doing it.

LIAM: That's what I'm saying. Let's see what we're
up against. Let's take a breather and let's go

pick one off.

MARISHA: Jordana, do you have any books here on
zombie giants?

MATT: "For the most part, necromancy is not
studied in this town. At least, we never had to

"deal with it until recently, and we haven't had
the opportunity to really study since."

MARISHA: Well, I mean, zombie combined with
giants. We've fought zombies and we've fought

giants, so I'm assuming it with a vague--

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: We keep our distance.

TALIESIN: How long does it take to recharge Hex,
by the way?

MATT: You need a long rest.

TRAVIS: How many Sunbeam hadoukens do you have
left, Keyleth?

MARISHA: How many hadoukens? As in Sunbeams? I'm
done on Sunbeams.

SAM: We need to rest.

TRAVIS: If we get a short rest, how many do you
get?

MARISHA: I'm done. None.

LAURA: We need a long rest to get spells.

MARISHA: However, if I short rest, I actually
haven't burnt any of my animal forms here recently

and I can water elemental up, which would also
permanently kill them. So I have other defenses

that could still take down vampires if we
encounter another one. I'm more concerned about

these giants right now.

TRAVIS: That's what I'm talking about. They're
vampires.

MARISHA: No, they're zombies. They're undead.

LAURA: They're zombies.

LIAM: They're undead.

TRAVIS: Those are two different things, huh?

MATT: They are two very different things.

TRAVIS: Grog learns.

(laughter)

MATT: All right. So what's the plan?

LAURA: We short rest and get back out.

LIAM: We take a short rest and then exterminate.

SAM: Wait, join the rebellion or ride around town
telling everyone, "quell?"

MARISHA: We're taking down these damn giants.
These giants are killing people left and right; we

watched them crush people on our way here.

TALIESIN: We tell them that they take cover during
the night.

TRAVIS: I'm going to roll four hit dice.

MATT: Yeah, you guys go ahead, use your hit dice to
heal up while you're taking your short rest

for those who've taken damage.

LAURA: Oh, Trinket. Can you heal Trinket?

MARISHA: I can.

LAURA: Heal him so much. Does Trinket get... oh,
he does get hit dice.

MATT: Trinket technically does not. Trinket
requires--

LAURA: It says he does. It's written down.

MATT: Hit dice?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Also, another strange question: what
creates initiative? Initiative is your dexterity

modifier?

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: So with me, it's my dexterity modifier.
Plus two.

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: I'm also currently wearing a Headband of
Initiative, which I'd forgotten about.

MATT: Which...?

TALIESIN: Gives me plus two to my initiative.

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: Oh, dear god almighty. Okay. Thank you.

MATT: Percy, Percy, Percy.

TALIESIN: I don't mean to be doing this.

MATT: No, it's great. Just glad you didn't take the
Alertness feat. Then things would have gotten

stupid.

LAURA: Are you healing Trinket?

MARISHA: How much more does he need?

LAURA: He's at 36. He needs 24 more.

TALIESIN: Actually, I'm going to be using the Hat
of Disguise just because it's probably safe. Does

anybody want a Headband of Initiative?

LAURA: Yeah. Do you not need it?

TALIESIN: I can't wear two things on my head.

LAURA: I don't have anything on my head.

TALIESIN: So you've got plus two to your
initiative, and I'm losing plus two to my

initiative. It's called a Headband of Initiative.

MARISHA: You already have an eight to your
initiative.

LIAM: It's very mystical.

TRAVIS: How much time do we have before the sun
that is being blocked by the rainclouds goes

down?

MATT: Well, you guys are taking a short rest,
about 30 minutes to an hour, so you have about two

and a half, three hours before it goes down
entirely.

TALIESIN: That should give us enough time to do a
quick tour. We already know their walking route,

and I'm sure that the people are putting up a
fight.

MARISHA: I'm going to give him a level two Cure
Wounds.

LAURA: Okay.

MARISHA: So do 2d8 plus ten.

LAURA: Me?

MARISHA: Sure. Me or you. Whoever feels more
comfortable.

LAURA: I'll do it. It was good.

MATT: During this rest, if you wanted to
spend some time with that cape--

LIAM: I do. I'm going to sniff it and shake it
out.

MATT: For the most part, it doesn't appear to be
enchanted.

SAM: No, I can sing a Song of Rest for all of us.

MARISHA and LAURA: Oh, yeah. Do that.

SAM: It gives us all 1d6. That's pretty weak.

MARISHA: No, but that's...

LAURA: No, it's fine. He's got extra hit points;
don't worry about it.

MARISHA: Well, Song of Rest just happens, right?
Do you get that for free? You might as well, if

you don't burn anything.

SAM: Okay. (sings) Health! We need some now.
Health! Not just anybody. Health! You know you

need someone.

ALL: (sings) Health!

MATT: That's not trademarked at all. I love it.
All right, so you guys have rested up. Through the

rest, you occasionally hear voices run by,
yelling. As you guys get toward the end of your

rest, you hear the (stomping) large heavy
footfalls heading nearby. (groaning, crash) A

loud, heavy impact, and you hear some short cheers
outside.

TRAVIS: Yes!

LAURA: Yay!

SAM: Oh, he died. That's two down. Splash two.

TRAVIS: Right out front, we hear it?

MATT: Out front, a little ways off. Not
immediately.

SAM: Do we have horses? We don't have any horses,
do we?

LAURA: No.

LIAM: They died.

MATT: Yeah, they got eaten by harpies.

TRAVIS: Should we go outside and see how they're
doing?

TALIESIN: Yeah, let's check it out.

TRAVIS: We go out front.

LIAM: Time to kill some giant undead.

MATT: Okay. Jordana lets you guys out, locks
behind her.

MARISHA: Do we want to split up?

TALIESIN: No, let's keep together.

LAURA: Actually, before we go, I ask, do you have
any holy symbols at all in here?

MATT: "I'm sorry, no."

LAURA: Nothing?

MATT: "No. All those were kept in either of the
two temples here."

LAURA: Do you have anything magic that could help
me?

MATT: "I already gave you everything of magic that
I had here."

LAURA: Oh, right. I forgot we took it.

MATT: "Sorry."

LAURA: Shit. All right, thank you.

TRAVIS: Once we're outside, how far away is that
giant that was felled?

MATT: As you step outside and look, it's about 60
feet off, near one of the big crossroads near this

area. And a zombie giant has been completely
felled down, and there are three people now that

are currently in the process of hacking its head
off just to make sure. It's a group of about seven

people that live here. They're all looking pretty
messed up, but they're all eager and

adrenaline-driven, they're all hacking away, then
stopping and taking a breath (breathes heavily).

You hear in the distance, (thunder crack) bolt of
lightning coming down from the storm, and as it

echoes, everyone shakes for a second, look at each
other, (cheers) give a cheer of victory. They all

hop off the body of the zombie giant and begin
darting further in towards the center of the city.

MARISHA: I look up. Is my de Rolo symbol still in
the sky?

MATT: It's there. It's dissipating slowly, but
it's still there. It's moved a little bit off-axis

with the storm.

TRAVIS: So that's it for the big houses, right?
Just the castle.

TALIESIN: Just the castle.

SAM: Except we haven't killed the members of one
of the houses. By the way, my Song of Rest is a d8.

LAURA: Awesome.

SAM: But we haven't killed the last one. Now, the
one that you guys killed. What's his name again,

Tylieri?

MATT: Tylieri.

SAM: He was a vampire.

ALL: Yes.

SAM: Because Sylas killed him. Right?

TALIESIN: Yes.

SAM: And then made him a vampire.

TALIESIN: One would assume.

SAM: Didn't he hang him on the Sun Tree?

LAURA: What? No. What? What are you talking
about?

SAM: I don't know. Didn't that guy that we
meet...

MATT: You do recall, actually, when you were
interrogating the driver of the Briarwoods.

Tylieri was the master of the driver Desmond, who
beat him and subjugated him to various forms of

torture and abuse before Lord Briarwood took
Desmond and, to try and show extension of faith,

revealed to Desmond Tylieri hanging from the Sun
Tree. That was true.

TRAVIS: Wow.

SAM: And then he became a vampire. Is that where
they're spawning?

LAURA: No. Maybe he was already a vampire and he
hung him from the tree just to show--

SAM: That doesn't seem right.

TALIESIN: Let's head to the Sun Tree, why don't
we?

LAURA: Let's head that direction.

TRAVIS: Let's go.

MARISHA: Something to us about how when people die
in this town. The guy you talked to at the bar?

SAM: Yes, we talked to a guy at the bar. What
about him?

MARISHA: He said when people die here they don't
die.

SAM: Well, yes, we know that, yes.

LAURA: They come back.

LIAM: They could be-- yes, that could apply, too.

MARISHA: I think this whole damn town-- I think
the whole land is cursed. Is what I think.

TRAVIS: I think that's--

LAURA: Probably pretty fair.

TRAVIS: Should we go to the tree?

LAURA: Sure.

MARISHA: Why?

TALIESIN: Just to see--

LAURA: We'll make our way through the town and
look for giants as we make our way to the tree.

MARISHA: Let's look for giants. Let's go
giant-hunting.

MATT: Okay. All right, so from the Alcove, you guys
head in a southwestern motion, keeping off the

main paths best you can. The main chaos seems to
have died down a little bit in this area of the

town. You come across another body of a zombie
giant, surrounded by what looks like eight bodies

of civilians of the town.

LAURA: Are they all dead, or are they injured?

MATT: No, they are all very dead. Two of which are
torn in half and just tossed to different sides,

one appears to be half-eaten, and the rest are
just smashed. But whatever troop was with

them managed to take the zombie giant down.
Eventually, you make your way to the center of the

town square where the Sun Tree is and there is,
across the way on the opposite side, what appears

to be, in mid-struggle, one zombie giant that has
a series of spears or javelins sticking out of its

torso. It's currently swatting at a group of
individuals that have torches in the rain, still

trying to get up towards it and push it backward.
The Sun Tree, at a glance-- roll a perception

check.

MARISHA: All of us?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: One. There's a tree!

SAM: Four.

MARISHA: I rolled a 19, so 29?

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: 23.

LAURA: If my passive perception's higher than my
roll--

MATT: Active perception and passive perception--
passive is more something to keep track when

you're not actively perceiving. So. Grog?

TRAVIS: Seven.

MATT: Okay. Keyleth, you pick this out in the
rain, and it's hard to see, but from this angle,

you see what looks to be eight ropes, currently,
just dangling free from the Sun Tree.

TALIESIN: Damn it.

LAURA: Shit.

SAM: The tree is the spawning spot.

LAURA: Really?

SAM: Or maybe one of them.

TRAVIS: Or maybe they cut them down.

SAM: We've got to cut down this tree.

LAURA: Does it look like the ropes have been cut?

MATT: You can go closer to inspect it if you
want.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: You're hearing in the distance the (roars)
the battle's still raging about 65, 70 feet from

you. You get up behind the tree and you take the
ropes and inspect it. All the ropes are very

finely cut.

LAURA: Oh. They were cut. They cut them down.

TRAVIS: They cut their dead down.

MARISHA: Okay, so the nooses are gone.

MATT: Yeah. And you do see, there are a number.
This close, you can see there are loops of rope

all over the tree: some very old and weathered and
aged, some of them are torn, some of them are cut,

but the fresh ones that are the longest currently
and that are placed closest to where the bodies

were originally there are all very cleanly cut.

LAURA: Can we spin around and look and see if
there's anything around that looks like-- or look

at tracking and see if it looks like somebody cut
them down or if they fell on their own?

MATT: You glance around real fast and you can see
to the south there is still the battle raging

between the zombie giant and the crew of
individuals, but you look back where you guys were

from, and you see a large series of shapes
stepping through the rain, coming from the

direction you guys were.

LIAM: I think they cut them down just like
Tylieri. I think that this is where they hang them

to ripen, and then when they're ready they pluck
them off the tree and set them on their way.

MATT: As you're having this conversation, you,
keeping your eyes forward as he's saying this in

your ear, you can see, as the light of the town is
slowly beginning to vanish into a sunset--

MARISHA: Is it still raining?

MATT: It is still raining. You see ahead of you,
coming from the central roadway into the square of

the town, what you can only surmise to be anywhere
from 30 to 50 armored skeletal entities that are

pouring from the north.

MARISHA: Okay. I climb the Sun Tree.

SAM: Wait, what? We've got to get out of here!

MARISHA: I'm climbing the Sun Tree.

MATT: Climbing the Sun Tree. All right. You guys
see Keyleth scurry up the Sun Tree.

SAM: I blow my Horn of Fog to create a
smokescreen. I don't know what the fuck she's

doing.

MATT: Okay. (foghorn sound) The slow horn-blow
comes out, and this fog begins to fill the area

between this marching skeletal army and the Sun
Tree where you guys currently are. Looking over

your shoulder, you can see the zombie giant
finishes smashing the last individual in that

crew, picks it up and jams it into its jagged
giant teeth.

MARISHA: So there's a big army coming down,
filtering down a street.

MATT: Down the street towards you.

MARISHA: How far away?

MATT: You can't tell now. There's just fog along
the way.

MARISHA: I can't tell how far away they are right
now?

MATT: No, you can't see them.

MARISHA: I can't see them?

MATT: No, because Scanlan just created a whole
bunch of fog between the two of you. The moment

you saw, they may be about a hundred or so feet
from you.

LIAM: Keyleth, tell us what you're thinking,
because the rest of us are taking this time to go.

TRAVIS: You engage, they'll follow, we go, we
fight another day, we sleep in the rafters and

wait until daybreak.

LIAM: Who are you?

MARISHA: I might be able to do something.

LAURA: What is it? Say it!

MARISHA: I can do a big ice storm or do something
to take all these fuckers out at once.

TRAVIS: All 30 to 50 of them? Kill them all?

MARISHA: It's a big range.

LIAM: No. Keyleth, we've got to go.

TALIESIN: I say we let her hit them, and we run.

MARISHA: Scanlan, can you drop the fog just a
bit?

SAM: Nope, not by magic.

MATT: He can't control it.

LAURA: It's on the ground. You can probably see
above it. Fog is low.

MATT: Well, the fog this creates is a magical fog
that obscures an entire area. If you climbed to

the very top of the tree, you might be able to get
a little bit of a visual.

MARISHA: All right, I'm going to climb as high as
I can.

MATT: Okay, make an athletics check.

LAURA: I'm going to climb up after her.

SAM: Oh my god.

MARISHA: 11. Acrobatics or athletics?

MATT: Athletics.

MARISHA: Oh, that's better. 15.

MATT: 15. Okay. You make your way up to the very
precarious top of the branches. You can feel the

brittleness of it as the tree itself, its life
force is withered over time and some of it cracks

and some of the actual bark of the tree twists off
in your grip as you get to the very top. You can look

just over the bank of fog that Scanlan has created
and you can see beyond that. The number of undead

from this angle, what was initially like 30
probably pushes closer to about a hundred.

MARISHA: Okay. And they're like a hundred feet
away?

MATT: Starting about a hundred feet away, slowly
marching towards you.

MARISHA: Right where they are, I'm going to start
a little ahead of where they originate, I'm going

to start making an ice storm. I'm pushing all the
way back to where-- just right down these

fuckers.

LIAM: I'm also just trying to stay underneath her
as best I can.

LAURA: Stop looking up her skirt, brother.

LIAM: Is she in a skirt?

SAM: She's been wearing a dress this whole time?

LIAM: I thought she was covered in leaves.

TALIESIN: Stop looking up her fig leaf.

MATT: All right. What's the damage on that? Is it
2d8 bludgeoning and 2d8--

MARISHA: They take 2d8 bludgeoning damage and 4d6
cold damage.

MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll for both. And it's a
save for half, right?

TALIESIN: Inspiration?

SAM: Oh. Well. I didn't do it.

MARISHA: 2d8 bludgeoning, that's seven
bludgeoning... 4d6. Not great at all. Four, five,

six, seven, eight.

MATT: Total of eight. Eight plus... what was the
other one?

MARISHA: Seven.

MATT: Seven, okay.

MARISHA: And it's difficult terrain.

MATT: Okay. So the first area. Suddenly you see
some of the clouds above you begin to funnel

downward, and a few bolts of electricity (crackle)
through it. As the funnel hits, it grows dark, and

then all of a sudden this cold wind begins to
swirl around it. And with that, the cloud almost

seems to tear open within itself and a sheet of
jagged ice and sleet begins to pour downward into

the center of this undead horde. As it does, you
can see probably a good 25, 30 of these are just

blown apart, bone shards scattered around and you
can see bits of rusted metal weapons and armor

thrown left and right. The ice then coalesces over
the floor of this area and some of the skeletons

just slip, but they keep marching forward. It
definitely took a chunk, but as it continues

pushing forward--

MARISHA: Now we can run.

LAURA: Good job. I grab the back of her 
shirt and yank her towards me.

MATT: You guys make your way down the tree.
As you get to the bottom of the tree, the zombie

giant has taken notice of the sudden flashing of
light and the movement in the tree and is bounding

towards the tree after you guys.

LAURA: Are we running?

TRAVIS: Are we going to the Alcove or going to the
treeline?

TALIESIN: I say we go to the treeline, and I say
that you take a couple shots as we're heading--

LAURA: I'm definitely doing that, yes. I'm going
to shoot at the giant as we're running. Hunter's

Mark him.

MATT: Okay, you Hunter's Mark, turning around,
looking at the giant.

MARISHA: As she says that, I'm going to go ahead
and start casting my Call Lightning spell.

MATT: Okay. So you land and you cast Call
Lightning. The fog that you created, Scanlan?

SAM: Yes.

MATT: Has formed up. You start seeing shapes;
these terrifying skeletal faces begin to appear

through the fog as the rest of the army begins to
push through. The clouds coalescing above Keyleth

as you get your Call Lightning ready, you marking
the zombie giant, you guys begin bolting out of

the way. Trinket comes running up behind you, Vex,
and picks you up onto his back, and you guys begin

rushing off toward the treeline-- to the west or
the east?

LAURA: Can I shoot him?

MARISHA: Yeah, as I turn around, I Call Lightning
on the giant.

MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage on that.

MARISHA: And it's cloudy, so I get how much more?

MATT: I don't know, how much do you get more on
that? Call Lightning would be...

SAM: While you decide, which way are we going,
Percy? West or east?

MATT: 3d10. It does an additional d10. It does
4d10.

LAURA: And I'm going to shoot him through my
Longbow of the Sky Sentinel as we're going away, too.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: So the passage to the castle I'm aware
of is to the west, and then the one that Stonefell

mentioned is to the east?

TRAVIS: Do we go to the treeline by the castle?

MATT: No, the one Stonefell mentioned was the
same.

TALIESIN: Was the same?

MATT: It wasn't Stonefell, it was Vouk.

TALIESIN: Yeah, thank you.

MATT: But yeah. He was referring to the same one.

TALIESIN: Treeline to the west so that we can
attack first thing.

LAURA: 22. Twice.

MATT: 22 hits.

LAURA: And then three on the last one.

MATT: Okay, yeah.

LAURA: Well, it's technically 14 on the last one.

MATT: For him? Still hits.

LAURA: Oh, sweet!

MATT: It's a big target. Big target, lot of hit
points.

MARISHA: And as she's brewing up her bow, I'm
behind her and just bring down the bolt for 32

damage.

MATT: Damn. (lightning sound) You can see the bolt
strikes the front of the zombie giant right as it

starts swinging after you guys. The bolt hits its
shoulder and blasts a chunk of its shoulder blade

off. You see bone shards fire behind, and there's
a giant piece of its torso now missing where the

bolt hit. (groans) Stumbles back onto its back
foot and catches itself, almost toppling over.

MARISHA: Just start backing up. "Vex?"

MATT: It starts lumbering forward again as Vex
releases her arrow, which splits into three.

MARISHA: Vex?

LAURA: 54 points of damage.

MARISHA: Kill it!

MATT: Nice! (impact sounds) All the arrows
blasting into its body, you can see they sink in

and burst on the inside. There's a little, a dull
glow as this burst of electrical energy hits from

underneath its sickly zombified flesh. At which
point, there's a slight delay before it (explosion

sound) bubbles forth and a bit of its internal
liquid just spews out like a boil. You can see

it's definitely taking damage, and it keeps
pushing forward. Yeah, it's still moving towards

you guys.

LIAM: How far away is it?

TALIESIN: For gods' sakes!

MATT: It's about ten feet from you guys right
now.

TALIESIN: I pull out Bad News. I'm shooting it
with Bad News, and I'm going for an aimed shot to

the legs.

MATT: Okay. The moment it would take for you to
stop and pull out Bad News, by the way, the moment

you guys are turning around to attack it, it has
gotten within range to hit, so this is all

happening simultaneously, so it's going to get two
strikes as you guys get your attacks, as well.

MARISHA: What are you doing?

MATT: So. Go ahead and roll your attack.

LIAM: I did.

MATT: What did you get?

LIAM: 27 and an 18.

MATT: Both hit.

TALIESIN: I got 28.

MATT: Okay. And against Percy, that is a 17 and a
20.

TALIESIN: 17 misses. The 20 hits.

MATT: Okay. You take 16 points of bludgeoning
damage as its fist comes down and (whack) slams

into your side just as Bad News fires off and your
daggers go (dagger sounds) towards it.

LIAM: Keen Dagger, Flametongue, combined 20 hit
points.

MATT: Okay. Good to know.

MARISHA: And as soon as I'm able, I'm backing up
and bringing down another lightning bolt.

LAURA: Well, I've got another attack. That was
just one attack that I did.

MARISHA: Oh yeah.

SAM: You need your spells. We need to hide. We
need to run.

MARISHA: It's okay, this is a concentration spell.
I can keep doing it. I'm not blowing spells on it.

TALIESIN: 22 points of damage, plus he's knocked
prone.

MATT: Okay. Easy enough. Through the daggers--

TALIESIN: Oh, he can make a con saving throw,
though.

MATT: It doesn't matter. It still manages to keep
its zombie form, though it seems like every single

hit you're taking chunks off its body, but it
continues to push through the damage until

eventually it swings at you with the hit, Bad News
goes off as it blasts through the center of its

torso and takes out the back of its spine. It
can't keep its physical form together, and as its

body lunges forward, you throw both of your
daggers, which go (thoonk thoonk) into each of its

eyes. It falls forward. The torso seems to roll on
impact and come after you like a slow-moving

boulder for a few feet, but since you're all
moving forward, you manage to outrun it, just

barely keeping out of the way. The legs
walk on their own for two more steps before it

just falls forward into the mud, relieving all its
intestines into the rain-soaked ground.

SAM: Let's get out of here!

MARISHA: Go, go, go. Run!

LAURA: Pass Without a Trace!

TRAVIS: Aggressive flower girl.

MARISHA: Do I see any other-- as we're running
through--

LAURA: Just run, Keyleth!

LIAM: I grab Keyleth by the arm and I just pull
and run.

MATT: You guys go running back and as you're
looking over your shoulder you can see the

skeletal army swarming the center of the square
and pouring into the streets. It seems that the

Briarwoods had their own reserve anti-riot
campaign at the ready.

LAURA: Oh, are they going to take out everybody?

MARISHA: We can't go, we can't go!

SAM: We have to go. We have nothing left.

MATT: And with that, we're going to conclude
tonight's session.

(groaning)

MATT: We'll be returning next week on that note.

TRAVIS: (laughs) You son of a bitch, I love it.

MATT: All right, so we're going to take a little break
here while we set up for Critmas. Quick one, very

quick, we'll be back here in just a few minutes,
for those who want to hang in and watch how

ridiculously amazing this community is.

LAURA: Oh my gosh. There's like, there's a lot.

MARISHA: Yeah, you guys are crazy.

LIAM: Buckle up!

MATT: All right, quick break. See you in a
second.