MATT: Cassandra, remembering this, drags her body
through what remnant is there on the ground.

There's a big groove left behind her as she's
being dragged through it. You get to the second

trap that she marked, and you guys make your way
around it. You make your way to where the road

diverges, the one way to the castle, and the one
to the acid pits. And Cassandra heads towards the

acid pits.

LAURA: Cassandra, what are you doing?

TRAVIS: She's throwing them in the acid pits.

MATT: She doesn't look back at you. She just keeps
walking. You follow her for about five minutes.

MARISHA: Are we sure this won't make anything bad
happen if we throw a body into the acid pits?

TALIESIN: I think it's fine.

TRAVIS: I think it's acid.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: After about five minutes of following her,
the path leads up and then crests, and there is a

room that smells awful. It's similar to the acrid
scent the room was filled with when the acid was

pouring into the room. There's a whole series of
other chemicals and inside, you can see there's a

number of laboratory set-ups near you. You get the
feeling this is probably where a lot of this

particular acidic concoction that was fine-tuned
for this stone of Whitestone was created, or at

least, honed by Ripley. Without a beat, Cassandra
walks up to the edge and just throws Delilah's

body in. (plop, sizzle) Then it disappears beneath
the surface as the hissing, bubbling noise takes

over the silence of the room. She sits there and
just watches it sink.

LAURA: Well?

LIAM: She brought a lot of ill to this world.
Don't feel too bad.

MATT: Cassandra turns back around.

TALIESIN: She was too dangerous to let live.

MARISHA: What about you? How do you feel?

SAM: How's that gun barrel of yours?

MARISHA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: I pull out the broken barrel and inspect
it.

MATT: Looking at it, you can see, Delilah's name
is missing from the barrel entirely. Cassandra's

name is still on the barrel, and so is Ripley's.

Go ahead and make an investigation check.

TALIESIN: I had some thoughts but yeah. 11.

MATT: Okay. Just looking at it, it looks like the
names are there, emblazoned as to where they were

before.

TALIESIN: I'm going to just take the broken gun
and point it at my sister. What do I feel?

MATT: Currently, nothing.

TALIESIN: I think I'm all right. I think I may be
all right.

SAM: Why don't you toss that thing into the acid just
in case?

TALIESIN: I'm going to do something else.

SAM: Are you going to shoot your sister like you
just pointed your gun at her? What was that

about?

TALIESIN: You were the one who wouldn't give me
the other gun.

SAM: I gave you the other gun.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go over to the little lab
setup. Is there some acid there?

MATT: Go ahead and make an intelligence check.

TALIESIN: 17.

MATT: 17? Yeah, a brief look around you can see
there are many different compounds, different

strengths of acid, what a lot of the initial
experimentation was.

TALIESIN: I'm going to start trying to scar her
name off the barrel.

MATT: Okay. You take a moment and eventually
manage to scar and dissolve enough of the exterior

of that barrel until the name is no longer
visible.

TALIESIN: I think it's fine.

SAM: (scoffs) You think it's fine?

LAURA: Lovely.

TALIESIN: You're going to have to have some
faith.

SAM: I don't have any faith! Here, we'll make a
deal. I'll let you keep that gun if you give me

the other one.

TALIESIN: No.

(laughter)

LAURA: So glad that your smoke monster is
seemingly gone, Percy. That's wonderful news. The

spinning orb of death, however, is still back
there, so we should probably figure out what to do

about that.

TALIESIN: Well, I think perhaps we can talk to
Keeper Yennen. Perhaps put together some priests

to deal with that. Enlist the help of the entire
town now that there's no longer

a revolution to be fought.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's a solid plan.

MARISHA: Oh, the revolution.

TALIESIN: We forgot about that.

MARISHA: We should go stop the fighting. Right? We
should probably let them know it's over.

LAURA: Probably.

TRAVIS: Well if they're fighting, wouldn't it mean
it's not over?

MARISHA: Well, I'm sure they don't know that the
Briarwoods are dead.

TALIESIN: So perhaps if we tell everyone the
Briarwoods are dead. Cassandra?

TRAVIS: Maybe we'll see Ripley on the way out.

TALIESIN: Wouldn't that be nice?

SAM: I just had a thought, Percy. I cast Friends
on him.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: I think I know how to fix your gun, if you
hand it to me.

TALIESIN: Never in my right mind would I hand my
gun.

MATT: Go ahead and make a-- it'd be a persuasion
check. And you go ahead and make an insight check.

But you have an advantage on it. No, he has
advantage on the persuasion, you do not have it.

LIAM: While they're talking, can I attempt to pull
it off of his belt?

MATT: Pull it off of Percy's?

TALIESIN: My insight is 21.

SAM: I rolled a natural 20.

TALIESIN: You are going to cost me so much money.

LIAM: I see Scanlan kill it, and I just step
back.

MATT: Okay. You look down at this gnome, and while
he's normally pretty silly and jovial, in this

moment, there's an honest spark of his own
inspiration in his eyes.

TALIESIN: (whimpers) I'm so upset that I have to
do this.

SAM: Wink!

TALIESIN: Going to kill you. I'm going to kill
you.

TRAVIS: You don't know. He's your friend. You're
not mad at all.

TALIESIN: For another three minutes.

LIAM: Yeah, roleplay for three minutes, Taliesin.

TALIESIN: I hand him the broken gun.

MATT: Begrudgingly, you reach out and place it in
his hand and release.

SAM: I say, thank you, Percy. I think, in due
time, you will thank me for this. And I toss it

into the acid. As I say, when the spell fades
he's going to be super pissed,

somebody protect me!

MARISHA: Okay.

TRAVIS: You want to hop on my shoulders?

SAM: Yes. I go run and jump on Grog's
shoulders.

MATT: As you watch it arc forward, in your head,
you're like, "That fucking gnome." The spell

fades, you hear him say that, and just as it
(plop, sizzle).

TRAVIS: You're not going to get that, are you?

TALIESIN: I reach in to try and grab it out.

LAURA: No, Percy! And I reach out and I grab his
hands.

TRAVIS: He threw it! You threw it, though, right?

TALIESIN: No, he dropped it!

MATT: He lobbed it. It wasn't a huge throw.

MARISHA: I cast Hold Person at 3rd level.

MATT: On?

MARISHA: Percy!

LAURA: As I reach up and I grab his hands as
well!

TALIESIN: That was so expensive!

MATT: Make a wisdom saving throw with advantage.

MARISHA: Son of a fuck.

MATT: Heroes' Feast, workin' against you!

LIAM: You're the lord of Castle Whitestone.

TALIESIN: Wisdom saving throw?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: 18.

MATT: What's your DC?

MARISHA: My difficulty class? 18.

MATT: You're like, "That cost a-- (cracking)"

MARISHA: (laughs) I always fail rolls against
Percy! It sucks!

MATT: A few moments pass. You don't even see it
beneath the surface now. You just see a little bit

of some fume released from whatever slow process
is dissolving your gun.

LAURA: I step in front as he's unconscious and I
go, Percy, dear. You'll thank us for this later,

I know it.

TALIESIN: He's paying for a new one.

LAURA: I kiss his cheek and say, I'm so sorry.

TALIESIN: He's paying for a new one.

MARISHA: We'll get you a new one, Percy.

TALIESIN: I'm going to have to-- oh god!

MATT: As you're watching this, from the fume, a
small plume of black smoke goes (whoosh).

LAURA and MARISHA: See?

MATT: And that cold nugget in the center of your
chest is gone.

(cheering)

LAURA: It feels good, doesn't it?!

MARISHA: Doesn't it feel good?

TRAVIS: You fucking genius!

LAURA: It feels good!

(laughter)

TALIESIN: It was so expensive.

TRAVIS: Aw, come on!

TALIESIN: Oh, just throw the carpet in there now,
why don't you?

MARISHA: Oh, Percival, that hurts.

MATT: Cassandra steps up to you and takes your
head in her hands and forces you to look at her

and goes, "Brother. We've all made sacrifices for
this." She slaps you.

TALIESIN: (yelps)

MATT: Oh! That's a 21. 19 plus two.

SAM: He's held right now.

MARISHA: Still holding him in place.

LIAM: I hold my fist way up high to Scanlan on
Grog's shoulder for a silent

little exploding fist bump.

MATT: And she looks to you and goes-- Cassandra
gives you a look to--

TALIESIN: You were never Mother's favorite.

SAM: Let's not be petty.

TALIESIN: She told me!

SAM: Let's not be petty, Percy.

MARISHA: You sure you want to let him go? You
sure? Did you hear what he just said to you?

You sure?

MATT: It came out as (muffled angry sounds).

MARISHA: I let it go.

MATT: Okay, your muscle control comes back to you
and Cassandra is holding your freshly slapped

face, gives you a look and goes, "Brother. Let's go to our
people. Let's tell them that for the first time in

"five years Whitestone is free."

TALIESIN: Oh god. Yeah. I'm letting it go.

MATT: She reaches over and she takes your arm in
her arm.

TALIESIN: Oh god.

MATT: She takes your arm in her arm and begins
walking both of you back towards the tunnels.

TALIESIN: That one was enchanted. Okay. Two
enchantments. Yeah, all right.

MATT: And with that, we're going to go ahead and take a
quick bathroom break. Meet you guys back here in a

few minutes.

MARISHA: But you're still alive!

TALIESIN: I'm not alive!

LAURA: You're not controlled anymore!

[break]

MATT: Welcome back, folks! So. Let's go ahead and
pick up where we left off. So, as you guys return

to the undercroft of Whitestone, Cassandra
carrying you, arm in arm. You make your way up

through the stairs to the main base floor of
Castle Whitestone. Are you guys heading towards

your-- where are you heading from here?

MARISHA: I'm going to head straight for the front
door and look in-- is there a balcony on top?

MATT: You can check for the second floor if you
want to.

LAURA: Overviews the city?

MATT: You have a pretty high view. It's already
elevated on this platform, so even from a ground-floor

area you can look down into the city.

TRAVIS: Front door.

MATT: Front door? All right, Grog walks up to the
front door, being careful of the scattered

caltrops you guys left there. The door is still
ajar from where you left it. As you step out and

look into the daylight, and it's at this point
now, probably mid-afternoon, pushing into evening.

You guys have been traveling underground for quite
some time and taken a few short rests, and have

had a lot of conflict and things happen. So you
started at the start of the day. You're now

pushing into towards dusk. But as you open up and
look outside, with what daylight is still there,

you see little plumes of smoke coming from the far
city. Down the pathway that leads up to Castle

Whitestone, you see about 70 to 100 armored
humanoids marching up towards the front of the

castle.

SAM: Humanoids?

MATT: Bipedal.

TRAVIS: Can I pick up my caltrops?

MATT: You begin to pick up your caltrops.

LAURA: I know what this is.

TRAVIS: Well, they're good guys.

SAM: No, it could be an undead army.

MATT: Make a perception check.

LAURA: I know what this is. Do I need roll
perception if I know what it is?

MARISHA: Yeah, I was going to say.

TRAVIS: Wow! 19 minus...

MARISHA: 20.

TALIESIN: 27.

SAM: Five.

LAURA: 15.

MATT: All right. As you guys get your weapons at
the ready--

TALIESIN: 25, sorry. Did the math wrong.

MATT: 25, okay. Percy and Vax, you notice the
people approaching, spattered in mud and various

types of ichor or blood. As they get closer, you
can see beneath the helmets: tired human faces.

Stepping up the side, weapons at the ready. As
they approach the very front of the line, you see

Keeper Yennen, equally exhausted, stepping
forward, essentially ready to storm the castle.

You see behind them as they approach a scattered
cluster of broken corpses, some human, some a

little less human. It looks like the rebellion
army seems to have cut its way through the

remaining defenders of Castle Whitestone and are
making their way towards the front of the castle.

As they get closer, they meet your gaze, and the
front of the group draw their weapons, and Yennen

steps forwards a little bit. "You there!
Percival."

TALIESIN: I step forward.

MATT: "Vox Machina. Are your wits about you?"

TRAVIS: Yes?

MARISHA: Yes.

TALIESIN: The Briarwoods are dead.

MARISHA: It's true.

LIAM: Serpent's head has been cut off, but there
is much to do.

MARISHA: Is it still cloudy?

MATT: It's a little cloudy. It's not rainstorm
ready, but there's still sort

of an overcast feel.

MARISHA: I'm going to go ahead and at third level,
because that's all I got left, cast Skywrite

again, and throw up the de Rolo crest once again
in the sky.

MATT: Okay. As you begin to coalesce the clouds
and the symbol and the shapes, you see a bunch of

the soldiers look around and Yennen steps forward
again towards you and goes, reaching up holding

his holy symbol of Erathis to his chest, he goes,
"Are you certain this is done? Percival."

TALIESIN: There's still a great evil beneath the
castle, but the Briarwoods are no more.

MATT: He turns around, looks to his men who are
all looking at him expectantly. "Well, you heard

"the man. The Briarwoods are dead. Whitestone is
free once more!" He looks up to the sky as the

symbol finishes from Keyleth's spell. "The de
Rolos are in power once again!"

At which point the entire crowd shouts "yeah!"
Their weapons to the sky, and as the shouts begin

to echo down into the valley of Whitestone, you
can see little lights begin to burn in the distance,

little notification lanterns that are being lit
and set at windowtops, at the top of the mountain,

and you can see this look of relief and joy on
every soldier's face as they all realize that the

death they were all marching to face is no longer
a threat. Cassandra, at this point, is still

standing behind you at your side, and really for
the first time since all of this went down

beneath, you see a smile on her face.

Yennen turns around again and approaches you all.
(sighs) "I don't know what to say. Well, come.

"There's much to discuss. Let us step from this
foul place for the time being. Men! Walk through,

"make sure it's clean." And the some of the
soldiers--

MARISHA: No!

TALIESIN: There's still a matter of some things
beneath the castle that we must deal with first.

MARISHA: No one should be allowed in for right
now, until we figure this out.

MATT: "Very well. Men, seal the doors, seal the
entrances. Keep watch."

MARISHA: We really need to rest.

MATT: "Then come. You've certainly earned it." And
he motions to a few of the guards.

MARISHA: What time of day is it? Do we have a
sense? Is the sun still up?

MATT: The sun's still up, but you can see from the
light source and the darkening of the sky and the

color pushing from a general white-grey. It's
going a little more reddish-orange.

MARISHA: Before we take a rest, I'm going to look
at Percy, and I'm going to be like, I'll catch up

with you guys. I think the people need to see the
sun. And I'm going to go into my air elemental

form, go up into the sky above Whitestone, and do
my Whirlwind ability and start trying to just push

all of the clouds out of the way to let the sun
in.

MATT: All right, as you guys begin--

LAURA: Oh, did she freeze?

SAM: She's frozen in a beautifully surprised
expression.

MATT: She can still hear us.

LAURA: Oh, she can still hear us but she's
frozen.

SAM: Surprise!

MATT: You guys begin to march down towards the
city with the rest of the army. A group of about

ten men stay behind just to guard the castle. As
you make you way to the northern side of

Whitestone and you enter the streets again, you
can see families beginning to walk out of their

homes in the streets. In the entirety of your time
here in Whitestone, most folks that didn't need to

be out in the open stayed indoors, and you begin
to realize this seeming ghost city was hiding a

lot more life and a lot more hope than you had
expected, and you see families, and children,

stepping out, and as you walk through the streets
you can see the kids wave. You meet eyes with some

of the possible widows, who mouth to you, "Thank
you".

LIAM: Seeing that--

TALIESIN: Can we pass by the Alcove?

LIAM: Seeing that, I'm going to do the buddy arm
around the shoulder and pull my sister in close.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: (clears throat) I walk up to a particularly
handsome widow, and I say, your husband--

LAURA: Pike is right here.

SAM: Oh. Your husband died for a good cause,
thanks, bye.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Pike is shocked. Pike is shocked and
offended.

SAM: Why are you looking at me like that, Pike?
Pike, stop it!

MATT: As you walk away, she looks really confused
and clutches her chest in horror for a moment as

one of the soldiers walking with you steps by her
side, looking at you curiously, and gives her a

kiss on the cheek. She goes, "Who was that man?"

SAM: Oh, sorry.

TALIESIN: Can we-- definitely want to go, let's stop
by the Alcove.

MATT: Okay. You eventually start making your way
towards the Alcove as you

enter deeper into the city.

LIAM: Pike, you there? Can you hear us?

MARISHA: Have I cleared up enough of the sky at
this point?

MATT: We're going to get to that right now,
actually.

MARISHA: I want to get to that.

MATT: As you guys are stepping-- I'm sorry, what?

SAM: No, it's okay.

MATT: Pushing further in you can see now the
clouds beginning to dissipate, and also for the

first time since you've been here you see blue sky
directly above the city. The vibrant

orange-red-purple colors of the sunset now come
cascading along the city of Whitestone, and

there's a collective (gasps), an inhale and gasp
of awe from the soldiers and the people alike as

this opens up above you. You begin to walk past.
The Alcove's to your left, if you wish to--

TALIESIN: I want to stop in.

MATT: Okay. As you start heading towards the Alcove
you can see Jordana is already out on the front

stoop looking up at the sky. She looks over and
sees you. "Percival!"

TALIESIN: I give her a big hug.

MATT: It takes her by surprise at the moment, and
then she gives in and

continues to give the hug back.

TALIESIN: This would not have been possible
without your help. Thank you for everything.

MATT: "Of course." She leans into the hug a little
bit, then nods and then raises her head. "Did you

"see my father?"

TALIESIN: I have not. We have not searched the
castle yet, though.

LAURA: We just left it? We haven't searched the
castle?

MARISHA: We searched a little bit.

LAURA: But there could be live people in there
when we sealed it?

TALIESIN: We don't know. It's not airtight or
anything. I mean, they're breathing.

SAM: Ripley's gone and also there's a goliath on
the loose.

MATT: As you say this, Keeper Yennen goes, "Not
anymore, there isn't. Follow me."

ALL: Ooh.

SAM: Are there any young boys around?

MATT: He stops in his tracks and looks over his
shoulder and goes, "What?"

SAM: I just need a young, fleet-footed boy.

TRAVIS: See, the last time I asked for a young boy
people gave me shit, too.

TALIESIN: No, we're going to give him shit.
There's no problem here.

MATT: He slowly turns away and keeps walking
forward.

SAM: Or a girl! No, wait, that sounds weird.

TRAVIS: Yep. You can't say it in a right way. It's
impossible. Innocent request.

MATT: The people have begun following behind your
procession towards the center of the city.

LIAM: Bring me your smallest, most helpless
child.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: Oh god.

TRAVIS: That's fucked up.

TALIESIN: That's going to explode.

SAM: All right. Show us what you want to show us,
Yennen.

MATT: You see behind you soldiers reuniting with
their families, friends gathering in the streets,

and the people of Whitestone are now beginning to
join the sides of your procession towards the

center of the Sun Square in the middle of
Whitestone. As you crest into the outskirts of the

square, Yennen gives a couple of whispered orders
to a couple of the soldiers, who rush off. You can

see people are now gathering in the center and
there's actually people

gathering around the Sun Tree.

As they all step to the Sun Tree, it's a little
quiet, and Keeper Yennen reaches up and pulls his

holy symbol of Erathis again, looks up to the tree
and looks back at the rest of you and goes, "For

"generations, it was those of the Zenith who looked
over this tree and these people here, and it was

"by the evil that once held foot in this town that
Father Reynal, the last of his line, was slain. We

"will work to find those who wish to take up the
mantle to clean and rebuild the Zenith, the

"pinnacle of Pelor's grace here in Whitestone. But
until that I, Yennen, swear to make this tree's

"safety my responsibility. This symbol of hope,
this center of the crest of your family has held

"the slivers of light in our hearts for a very long
time.

"Let us all take a moment and thank the heroes who
made this freedom possible: to the strong mountain

"of joy and bravery, Grog. To the gentle, to the
kind, to the just soul, Pike. To the swift of bow,

"keen of sight, and the most adorable creature to
accompany her--" as Trinket steps forward and

nuzzles your side-- "Trinket. By the agility, by
the cunning, by the loyalty of Vax. By the

"cleverness, by the wit, and the strange interests
of Scanlan. By the honesty, by the nature and

"connection with the world, and the wonder of
Keyleth. And by the strength of blood, and the

"willingness to sacrifice-- "

ASHLEY: (mic bump)

MATT: "Pardon me."

(laughter)

MATT: Damn it.

SAM: Start that one again?

LIAM: It's still very beautiful.

MARISHA: So beautiful.

TALIESIN: Two years on a sitcom. I can hold this
all day.

(laughter)

MATT: God damn it.

LAURA: Percival's just waiting for his
introduction.

LIAM: To the stone-cold motherfucker on air.

MATT: "To the return of those valiants we once
thought lost, and those who rise up to restore the

"joy of these people. Percival. May we raise our
weapons, our glasses, and our children, who accept

"this future to rebuild. Raise to Vox Machina.
Hyah!" And everyone raises as one loud--

TRAVIS: Yeah! Vox Machina!

MATT: As the sun slowly sets, the light coming
through in beautiful colors now. You see what was

once a very bleak town suddenly be renewed with a
spectrum of new accents. You begin to hear music

being played, as now the celebration begins with
the sun's setting. Folks are turning this into a

full celebration now. People are starting to bring
out food and--

MARISHA: Block party!

MATT: (laughs) You feel this sense that this is
the first time in a long time the people have ever

really been allowed to be happy about something.
And the energy is infectious in itself. As the

celebration begins, though, Yennen puts up his
hand and people begin to slow and calm as

men begin to bring forward two individuals in
chains. One of which you see is a half-orc female

in dark brown leather armor. She is chained and
thrown onto her knees onto the ground, and she

spits; you can see there's a few cuts across her
face and she looks dirty. And right next to her,

taking four men to do so, a goliath who's bruised
is also thrown onto his knees and they're both

just held at that place.

Yennen says, "The two remaining new nobles, given
power here as they aided the Briarwoods in taking

"this city. We have Duke--" which the people spit
at the sound of the name-- "Goran Vedmeyer. And

"Countess Jazna Graben. You have been found guilty
of treason against this town, of the

"responsibility of many lives lost, innocent. And
for furthering the plans of the evil that has

"oppressed us so long. I would wish that you, the
ones who freed us, deliver the judgment."

TRAVIS: (laughs)

LAURA: Come on.

TRAVIS: No, that sounds fair. I've known to
preside over many legal matters in my time as

Judgeface of Northwind.

LIAM: Define "legal."

MARISHA: Define "Judgeface."

TRAVIS: It would just baffle all of you. It's all
right.

SAM: Grog, if I may. I can assist you in this, if
you'd like.

TRAVIS: Oh, why of course, Sub-judge Scanlan.

SAM: Thank you, Grog. Percival, this is your
kingdom, so if you--

TALIESIN: I leave it to you.

LAURA: No.

TRAVIS: Yes. Even better.

SAM: These two have done much violence to this
place. They represent all that is evil.

MATT: "Wait." And Goran, who is now down on the
ground, looks up at you and goes, "I know you."

SAM: Never saw you before, friend.

TALIESIN: This is what I really wanted to see.

SAM: You have a lovely house, by the way. Or had
one.

(laughter)

MATT: Spits on the ground at your feet.

SAM: Might need a new roofer. Anyway. In a show of
grace and to demonstrate our new hope that we have

for this place, I suggest that we don't kill these
two.

TRAVIS: What?

SAM: But rather force them to help rebuild the
place that they helped destroy.

LAURA: In chains. Very heavy chains.

SAM: One of them at least is extremely strong. The
other one must have some sort of skill.

MATT: She for the first time looks up with this
gnarly toothy grin. You can see these partially

broken and jagged teeth in her mouth, and she
goes, "Come closer. I've never tasted gnome."

SAM: Okay, so maybe we'll kill her.

LAURA: Would you rather die?

TRAVIS: What kind of weapons did these two have on
them?

MATT: The men look about themselves and Yennen,
"Not entirely certain. However, she has been known

"to carry a quiver or two, and this one here wields
a blade as long as his body."

LIAM: The Briarwoods are broken and gone. You can
die today, or you can take your licks and help

rebuild this city. No one is here to protect you
or save you. You can work hard, start again.

MATT: Make a persuasion check. With advantage,
based on their current circumstance.

LIAM: Intimidation, you said, or persuasion?

MATT: Whichever you'd prefer.

LIAM: It's average, it's 13.

MATT: 13? Okay. You can see the goliath, Vedmeyer,
lowers his head. "I accept. Jazna?"

She looks over. "It seems you lack what has kept
me alive all these years: a spine. Kill me. I'd

"rather not stay at your beck and call."

TRAVIS: Okay.

TALIESIN: Grog.

TRAVIS: I reach over and I take out my greataxe
and I aim it for her neck.

MATT: Okay, as, did you swing or just aim it?

TRAVIS: Yeah, swing for the neck.
Beheading-style.

MATT: Make a strength check.

TRAVIS: Natural 20.

(laughter)

LIAM: Merry Christmas, Travis.

MATT: As you pull the axe out and you walk
alongside with it almost like a cane,

look down at her--

TRAVIS: Yeah, like a cane.

MATT: (impact noise) And with speed and deftness
where no one sees the blade make contact, there is

a moment where the head just drifts off the form,
leaving the base, the throat cleanly cleaven.

Cloven, if you will, sorry. There's a moment of
pause before the blood begins to pour from the

wound, it was so fast and so immediate, and the
body just slumps forward. There's a gasp in the

crowd suddenly, and then a cheer as the locals now
see one of the people that probably oppressed,

tortured, and killed many of their folk now lies
on the ground, killed.

TRAVIS: I look at the axe and look at the blood
covering it and I look over at Duke Gonad and I

say, so, where are you from and how did you come
to be in the service of the Briarwoods?

MATT: "I was hired in Wildmount."

TRAVIS: Do I know where that is?

MATT: You don't. You've heard it said before.
You've heard it mentioned, but you have no idea

where it is.

TRAVIS: Right, the holy lands of the sacred-- all
right.

SAM: Are you okay, your honor?

TRAVIS: Yes, thank you for-- I am quite tired.
Would you like to take it from here?

SAM: No.

TALIESIN: While we always must dispense our
justice, this is now a town of mercy as well. And

I will expect nothing less from all of us than to
give what we have lacked for so long. Duke.

SAM: Let hers be the last blood shed.

TALIESIN: Earn your life again.

MATT: He nods and looks down. You can't tell if
it's shame or just defeat, but his shoulders slump

and that little bit of fire that was in him when
he arrived is broken. The men look at you, they

get your nod and they lift the chains and pull
them off while a couple of the men pick up the

body of the half-orc woman and pull them out of
the crowd. The music swells up once again, and the

celebration continues without a beat. You can now
see tables being brought out to the center and

glasses are set about and drinks are being poured
as a giant central table right at the base of the

Sun Tree is set for you.

TALIESIN: They've just had this shit in a
Tupperware container, like in those big bins in

the back for the last five years with like
duct-tape lids.

MATT: It's not a grand meal, there hasn't been a
lot of time to prepare for it, but basically what

it looks like is whoever is preparing dinner or
whatever food was readily available, they're just

bringing it out. It's more of like a
share-with-whoever's-there type effort.

MARISHA: Aw, it's a potluck.

MATT: Kind of.

SAM: I find a young boy.

MATT: Yes, Scanlan?

SAM: Or a soldier, and I give him 15 gold and I
say,

for the love of god, find me a fucking beret.

MATT: "All right, sir." And the boy takes the gold
and rushes off, looking in his hands at the boon

he's been given by this practically-same-height
man. They don't see gnomes here very often; it's

been very confusing.

TALIESIN: I want to take some time to tell Keeper
Yennen about what is beneath the tree and let him

start to macerate some theories on what to do--

TRAVIS: Macerate? That's a big word.

MATT: After you finish this conversation, he sits
there and--

TALIESIN: It's a word for big name. Thank you. Do
it.

MATT: A few moments pass before the boy returns,
in his hand a (singing) raspberry beret, the kind

you find in a secondhand store.

SAM: Oh, feels good.

LAURA: Make it look cooler on him, because he made
it look dorky.

TALIESIN: It's a beret. I don't think he made it
dorky. I think it comes with

that already sewn in.

LAURA: There it is, looks good. It looks good,
Scanlan.

SAM: Thank you, young boy. Whatever your name was.
What was your name, young boy?

MARISHA: Make it good.

MATT: "Randall?"

SAM: Thank you, Randall. You've made me a very
happy small man.

MATT: And he brings you the change.

SAM: Oh no, keep the change, it's all right. Go
buy yourself a goose. The biggest goose in town.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: With a beret.

MATT: And he darts off excitedly. You catch him
out of the corner of your eye like stealing a swig

of beer--

SAM: Brandon Gilmore, that was his young name.

LAURA: Brandon Gilmore?

SAM: Yes.

MATT: Thank you, Brandon. So after you finish
regaling this tale to Keeper Yennen, let's see if

I have a proper song for celebration.

TRAVIS: I'm doing my best to empty the cask of ale
into the town patrons and myself.

TALIESIN: I don't know if that's-- less aviary than
celebratory.

MATT: Yeah, unfortunately.

MARISHA: Can Keyleth go over and check out the Sun
Tree?

MATT: Sure, as you're walking over there, we'll
finish this conversation here. Yennen nods to

himself and goes, "That is disconcerting. I'll
reach out to a few of my contacts, see who we can

"bring here to inspect it. I may go down tomorrow
myself and have a look. Is it safe?"

TALIESIN: No. There are traps. We've marked them.
It's also disturbing.

MATT: "All right. I'll bring a trusted team down,
then. If there's anyone you know who has vast

"historical or arcane knowledge, I would recommend
possibly having them come take a look as well.

"Unfortunately, I'm rather limited in my
teachings."

SAM: Pike?

LAURA: Allura?

SAM: But she's not in town.

TALIESIN: We can send word.

MATT: "Please do."

LAURA: What about Ryndarien?

MARISHA: Eskil?

MATT: There was Eskil Ryndarien, the archmage in
Westruun.

LIAM: Yes. Either, both.

MATT: "Good, good, yes, anyone at all. Maybe I'll
be able to glean something, but unfortunately most

"of our books were confiscated when the town was
taken. However, I appreciate that, and at least

"for the time being, there doesn't seem to be any
dead rising from the grave."

SAM: If I may, Percy, may I make a suggestion?

TALIESIN: Is it going to be throwing the rest of
my guns into a pit of acid?

SAM: No, but it will be spending some of your
kingdom's money.

TALIESIN: Replacing the guns that you threw into a
pit of acid.

SAM: Let's not talk about the guns.

TALIESIN: I really can't think of what else I'd
want to talk about. Please, go ahead.

SAM: If most of their books have been taken from
them, perhaps we could use some of the treasury to

build a library.

TALIESIN: That is not a terrible idea, and it's
possible that the books are still within the

castle.

LAURA: It's possible that the Briarwoods have
hoarded all of them. In fact, we might find

something about this entity inside the castle.

TALIESIN: And we do need to build three new
structures where the lords' houses were, and I

find the idea of rebuilding those mansions to be a
bit distasteful.

SAM: Perhaps we could even name one of the
libraries Gilmore's Glorious Books.

TRAVIS: Set up a satellite chain?

TALIESIN: We will discuss it. It's got a ring, I
will admit.

MATT: While you guys are having this
conversation--

LIAM: Oh, I was just going to add to that, I'm
sure the man can help

in this city's time of need.

TALIESIN: You were doing something, as well.

MATT: Yes. Keyleth, at this point, as you've
walked away from this conversation, you approach

the Sun Tree. It stands there with a little bit of
light as the sun's just now passing over the

distant mountain range that surrounds this valley.
The sky's growing more purple and dark blue. But

now lights have been lit and lanterns have been
brought to the center, you can see the Sun Tree in

full before you.

MARISHA: I reach up and I put my hand on it and I
cast Commune With Nature. Do I gather anything?

MATT: What does Commune With Nature do in full?

TALIESIN: It lets you commune with nature.

MARISHA: Essentially.

MATT: Oh, look at that, first page I open up to.
Okay.

TALIESIN: It's like a DM version of natural 20.

LAURA: It is. Except he does it all the time.

MATT: Okay, so which do you want to know, of all
the things that you can choose from?

MARISHA: Oh, what are my choices?

MATT: You can choose from terrain or bodies of
water in the vicinity; prevalent plants, minerals,

animals, or peoples; powerful celestials, fey,
fiends, or elementals or undead within 300 feet of

it-- or sorry, within three miles of it; influence
from other planes of existence; or buildings.

MARISHA: The influence of other planes of
existence sounds promising.

MATT: Okay, you gain three facts. So, first off,
you notice as you touch the Sun Tree and you cast

the spell, whereas previously you felt just dead
wood and a lack of any presence, there is a small

seed of life in the tree once again.

MARISHA: That's good.

MATT: We'll call that the first one, as a given.
As you inquire about any other planes of

existence, you do sense that at least some element
nearby relates to a realm of shadow.

LAURA: That's obvious.

MARISHA: Yeah, sure, okay.

MATT: And what's the third one you want to know?

MARISHA: Oh, I get a choice?

MATT: Yep.

MARISHA: I didn't know I had a choice.

MATT: You don't have to ask anything else if you
don't want to, if you got everything you wanted.

MARISHA: I want to know if-- god, so many options.
Is it going to be a good growing season this

spring? Crops going to be good? It's going to be a
good harvest moon?

LAURA: Ask how it's feeling, can you ask how it's
feeling?

MARISHA: How's it feeling? Can I ask the tree how
it's feeling, can I be like, "Hey tree. How are

"you doing today?"

MATT: That is very Keyleth.

MARISHA: You doing all right? How do you feel
between all this, about all this?

MATT: You sense--

SAM: Hey, boo.

MARISHA: Hey, boo.

MATT: You sense weariness, like something very old
that has been asleep for a very long time has

woken up.

MARISHA: Does it feel positive?

MATT: Positive.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: The Sun Tree, seemingly kept at bay, locked
away, what bit of its life force it managed to

maintain had been contained for so long and is now
finally free.

MARISHA: Can I just say, good morning, old
friend.

MATT: You sense the tree saying, "The sun just
set. It's not morning."

MARISHA: I go, oh shit. And then I turn to Percy
and I say, the tree talked to me.

TALIESIN: In that ancient way that trees talk.

MARISHA: You just had a smoke monster you were
talking to, is it that hard to believe?

MATT: (Ent voice) It's... not... morning...

TALIESIN: Thank you.

LIAM: I watched her walk up to the tree and I
followed her--

TRAVIS and SAM: Oh no.

LAURA: Here we go.

LIAM: Here we go. I follow her up and I don't say
anything, but I see one hand on the tree and

without saying anything--

TRAVIS: I walk up behind Vax and I pants him.

LAURA: Yes!

TRAVIS: And I grab the back of his collar and pull
backwards.

SAM: That's the revenge.

LIAM: Are you going to roll anything?

MATT: Okay. So.

LIAM: I'm not sure what he did though. Pantsing?

TRAVIS: I grabbed your pants and I pulled them
down to your ankles.

LIAM: But what's the part about the collar?

TRAVIS: I grabbed the back of your neck and pulled
you backwards with your pants around your ankles.

LIAM: Okay. He's got to roll, but if it happens,
it happens.

MATT: Right. I would consider this a grapple
check. So it's your athletics versus your

acrobatics.

LAURA: What about the pantsing? Is that included?

MATT: That is the pantsing.

TRAVIS: 20, plus--

MATT: Wait, natural 20?

TRAVIS: No, 19 plus-- 26. My athletics is plus
seven.

LIAM: I rolled a 32.

TRAVIS: Damn it.

MATT: As you reach out and are about to grasp the
sides, he leaps straight up in the air and then

lands a foot in front of you. You grab nothing and
see him glance over his shoulder and tsk-tsk.

LIAM: I knew that was going to happen.

TRAVIS: That's all right. It could've been now.
It'll just be worse later.

SAM: Nice try, Grog.

LIAM: You already took my left nut off my body.

TRAVIS: Oh, please. That was but appetizers for the
main course, my friend.

LIAM: All right, so that's challenge number one,
now challenge number two. So, I still don't say

anything besides (inhale) as I jump to the side
really fast to not loose my breeches. And she's

got one hand on the tree, and I just quietly, with
her free hand and my free hand, try to lace my

fingers with hers.

MATT: Against the tree?

LAURA: Oh my gosh, you guys are boyfriend and
girlfriend now.

MATT: As you finish your awkward it's-not-morning
conversation with the essence of the Sun Tree--

TALIESIN: It's morning somewhere.

MARISHA: As I'm talking, good morning, Sun
Tree.

MATT: You feel a strange alien hand in your left
free hand for a moment, unexpectedly.

MARISHA: I jump and I yank away instinctually.

MATT: Okay, she pulls away from it and looks over
her shoulder with a bit of surprise and sudden

horror.

LIAM: I shrug and look.

MARISHA: I was just talking to the tree. It talked
back.

LIAM: I don't say anything.

(long pause)

MARISHA: (giggling) Everyone is hiding.

SAM: I'm giving them privacy.

LAURA: You get privacy. It's your moment.

MATT: So? Vax just stands there, not saying
anything, just looking at you.

LIAM: I already said it.

MATT: Don't look at them.

MARISHA: I'm sorry. I don't know. I'm really
confused.

LIAM: Vax says, all right. And walks off.

MARISHA: Wait. I'd be lying if I said often at
night when I go to sleep, your face isn't the last

thing that crosses my mind. But with the weight of
the world and the weight of the

contact-embarrassment from our fellow party,
currently, it's hard to focus on. (hesitantly) You

said that when you were near death. We say a lot
of things when we're near death. How do I know

that's what you were truly feeling?

LIAM: I didn't say it out loud, I just thought
it.

MATT: No, you told her.

MARISHA: Oh yeah, no, you said that out loud.
Yeah, no, that wasn't in your head.

LIAM: I wore a mask for a long time, where I grew
up. And I'm not going to do that anymore. I'll wait.

MARISHA: Wait?

LIAM: For you.

MARISHA: Okay. I don't know what else to say right
now. I'm really tired. Really tired. I think

there's also a part of me that's just afraid.

LIAM: I feel like I'm going to get pantsed by a
goliath at any moment. Don't do anything. Don't

change anything. I haven't lied. I've told the
truth. If you'll have me, I'm yours. If you don't

want me, I understand. And that's all there is to
say. And then I actually walk off.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I stay by the tree.

MATT: Okay. As this is happening and he walks off,
you guys are there at the table, just now noticing

the both of them have been missing. You see
Keyleth, stunned, standing by the Sun Tree as

Keeper Yennen approaches you once again and goes,
"My friends. We have a lot of work to do and it

"would not be fair for me to assume, as you've
already done so much for us, but it has been a

"while since we've had much to celebrate in this
town, and this evening seems a fine

"improvisational event. But we have two weeks until
the Winter's Crest festival would be happening

"here in Whitestone, something we have not
celebrated in near five years. I would just ask,

"should you be interested, if you would wish to
stay with us these next couple of weeks to help us

"rebuild and perhaps aid in preparing the first
real shining moment in Whitestone's history since

"you were gone."

LAURA: Percival?

TALIESIN: I would be very grateful.

LAURA: We're here.

TALIESIN: We shall.

MATT: Cassandra nods, as well.

LAURA: Keeper, may I ask for a small request?
Could you maybe send a wonderfully worded letter

to Uriel and let him know how we saved the day and
how much you love us?

MATT: He looks very confused. "I imagine that
could be-- I assume that could be done, yes."

LAURA: That would be wonderful. Make sure you
mention how terrible the Briarwoods were and how

Vox Machina saved the day. Truly saved it--

SAM: We can write it for you if you just want to
sign it at the bottom.

LIAM: That guy's going to wake up this morning and
go, "oh, I'm an asshole."

LAURA: Please? Yes, that would be wonderful.

MATT: "All right. It'll be done."

LAURA: Thank you.

TRAVIS: Facepalm.

LIAM: "Aw, what was I thinking. Oh."

MATT: And so as the rest of you join in the
merriment, or whatever else you wish to do for the

evening, looking about post-sunset as night
descends on Whitestone, to the first clear sky

since you've arrived. To the first evening where
you can hear smiles, cheers, and laughter, we'll

pick up next week with the Winter's Crest festival
in Whitestone.

(cheering)

LAURA: You should've kissed her, it was the
perfect moment!

LIAM: I already did it.

LAURA: No but it was the perfect moment!

LIAM: You don't want it to happen anyway.

LAURA: I don't care, this is out of character! It
would have been the perfect moment!

LIAM: I never said I was smart.

MATT: It makes for fun drama. That was crazy.

TRAVIS: How am I going to beat your acrobatics?

LIAM: You are not.

ZAC: So we gotta get ready for Critmas. So we're
going to go offline and back up so we can make

sure we get this episode uploaded to you guys on
Monday. The longer the video, the longer it takes

to transcode and sometimes makes it take longer to
get up, so we'll be going offline and then

right back up for Critmas, guys.

LAURA: Yay!

MATT: See you back here in just a few minutes,
guys. Don't leave. We'll be here!